# Test Context in Rust

## What is `test_context` ?

- `#[test_context]` is an attibute macro provided by the `test-context` crate in Rust.
- It helps manage **test setup** and **cleanup** for testing environment.
- `TestDb` in this project's test cases is the **context** that will be automatically created and initialized before the test function runs(and why it is already created and intialized before the test functions -- because it's implementation already do those stuffs int test_context associated functions by impl the test_context's trait inner defined functions, for [code](../db.rs) tests mod).

## How `#[test_context(TestDB)]` Works?

- **Initialization**: Before each test function that uses `#[test_context]` runs, an instance of `TestDb` will be automatically created and passed as a reference (`&TestDb`) to the test function.

- **Cleanup**: After the test functions finishes execution (success or failure), the `TestDb` instance cna be dropped or cleaned up, depending on how it's implemented.

## Key Points of Test Context in Rust

- The `TestDb` type must implemented the `test_context::TestContext` trait.
- The test context (`TestDb`) is not **global**; it is created for each **test case** in the scope of `test mod`.
- This is **per-test isolation**, ensuring that your test cases don't interfere with each other.

## Examples Usage of `TestContext`

- First, we have to implement the TestDb for TestContext

```rust
use test_context::TestContext;
use sqlx::PgPool;

pub struct TestDb {
    pub pool: PgPool,
}

impl TestContext for TestDb {
    // setup && teardown functions which are defined in the scope of trait TestContext
    // and both of them must be implemented by TestDb
    async fn setup() -> Self {...}
    async fn teardown(self) {...}
}
```

- Second Use the instance of TestDb via its reference in the scope of the `test mod`

```rust
use test_context::test_context;

#[test_context(TestDb)]
#[tokio::test]
async fn update_eth_price_with_most_recent_test(test_db: &TestDb) {
    ...
}
```

## Summary

- `#[test_context(TestDb)]` ensures that a fresh, initialized instance of `TestDb` is passed into the test functions.
- We **do not need to manually initialize** `TestDb` inside the test function.
- It's **isolated per test case**, so each test gets its own clean environment.
- `TestDb` can be reused across multiple test functions by simply including it as the parameter (`&TestDb`) in the function signature.

This is particularly useful for tests requiring complex setup (e.g., database connections, file systems, or memory stores).
